chore(memory): promote strong-fit contacts drafts for review (#132)
medic/cht-agent: agent-memory/domains/contacts/issues/9177-feat9194-add-api-support-for-getting-place-by-uuid.md

services:
  - api
  - sentinel
techStack:
  - typescript
  - javascript
  - nodejs
  - couchdb
  - express
tags:
  - cht-datasource
  - place
  - contacts
  - rest-api
  - lineage
  - refactoring
  - get-by-uuid
related_workflows: []
source_pr: medic/cht-core#9177
source_sha: 282faee191a448bbcff8f67baa8b3fc844ef14dc
distilled_at: '2026-06-23'
reviewed_by: null
reviewed_at: null
confidence: medium
entities:
  - api/src/controllers/place.js
  - shared-libs/cht-datasource/src/place.ts
  - shared-libs/cht-datasource/src/local/place.ts
  - shared-libs/cht-datasource/src/remote/place.ts
  - shared-libs/contacts/src/places.js
  - api/src/routing.js
concepts:
  - data access abstraction layer (cht-datasource)
  - local vs remote data context
  - contact hierarchy and lineage
  - REST API endpoint design
  - shared-library data-context pattern
related_issues:
  - cht-core-9065
  - cht-core-8889
stale: false
---

## Problem

> There was no clean, tested way to retrieve a place-type contact by UUID through the cht-datasource abstraction or a REST API endpoint — only the person equivalents `Person.v1.get` and `Person.v1.getWithLineage` existed (issue #9065, delivered by PR #9090 — the same work the Related Issues entry below names by its PR number). Across the codebase, place retrieval relied on ad-hoc PouchDB.get calls, frequently depending on its implicit not-found-throwing behavior without explicit handling or tests.

Reviewer: **issue (blocking):** PR #9090 did not deliver `Person.v1.getWithLineage`. `59b42e2fa`, the #9090
squash, has zero hits for `getWithLineage`. `8432f5ab3`, PR #9176, adds it with four hits. Your
Related Issues section (lines 96-99) splits the two PRs this way. The new sentence contradicts it.
This sentence is new in this round.

```suggestion
There was no clean, tested way to retrieve a place-type contact by UUID through the cht-datasource abstraction or a REST API endpoint — only the person equivalents `Person.v1.get` and `Person.v1.getWithLineage` existed (both under issue #9065: `get` delivered by PR #9090 and `getWithLineage` by PR #9176, the two PRs the Related Issues entries below name). Across the codebase, place retrieval relied on ad-hoc PouchDB.get calls, frequently depending on its implicit not-found-throwing behavior without explicit handling or tests.
```
